الحمد بالله رب العالمين
الرحمن الرحيم
مالك يوم الدين
إياك نعبد وإياك نستعيم
اهدن الصراة المستقيم
صراة الذين أنعنت عليهم
غير المغضوب عليهم
السلام عليكم ورحمة الله وبركاته
بسم الله الرحمن الرحيم
الحمد لله رب العالمين
وبه نستعين ونصلي ونسلم
على أفضل الخلق أجمعين
نبينا محمد وعلى آله وصحبه
والتابعين ومن تبعهم
بإحسان إلى يوم الدين وبعه
We commence by praising Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
sending blessings and salutations
upon Muhammad صلى الله عليه وسلم
and his entire household
may Allah bless them all, his companions as well
and may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
bless every single one of us
all goodness
beloved brothers and sisters in Islam
we were in the midst of the battle of
the ahzab, the battle of the confederates
and we had made mention of how
Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
sent a powerful wind
and some rain, tornado
and Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
dispersed them
it is important that we make mention
of the time of digging the trench
when they were digging the trench
as we had said, a 10 kilometer long trench
22 feet wide, 16 feet deep
subhanAllah, it was a large trench
mashaAllah, and it was only
around parts of Medina Munawwara
and we made mention of the reason of that
the Prophet صلى الله عليه وسلم
and his companions were so dedicated in digging
that they would not leave
even to relieve themselves
without the permission of Rasulullah صلى الله عليه وسلم
whenever they needed to do something
they would ask his permission and then leave
it was easy for them to go and to come back
without really being noticed, but
they were so honest, they did not want to be seen
as people who were not fulfilling their duty
or making others do what they are supposed to be doing
you see when it comes to hard work
many people have a bad habit, that is
they wait for others to do the hard work
and then the name is theirs, mashaAllah
you know the work is someone else's
and they want to join in whenever there is goodness
and they say we achieved, but where were you my brother?
you were nowhere to be seen
so the sahabah were not like that
they used to work very hard and they were from amongst those
ask the Prophet صلى الله عليه وسلم
I need to go, I will come back
and Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala praises them in the Quran
using the following words
...
the true believers are those who believe in Allah
and in the messenger
and when they are engaged in some collective activity
they do not leave except after seeking permission
and Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala says
those who seek your permission
they are true believers in Allah and His messenger
صلى الله عليه وسلم
and Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala says
from amongst those who seek your permission
you may permit them
he used to permit them
but he had the option of not allowing them as well
yet he used to allow them صلى الله عليه وسلم
another very important statement made by Rasulullah صلى الله عليه وسلم
during that time when they were digging
and the dua that was being made when the enemies had come
he used to say
the meaning of which is
there is none worthy of worship besides Allah alone
he has fulfilled his promise to his worshipper
Allah promised him victory
and he has assisted his slave
and he has granted strength to his army
strength was granted to the Muslim army
and he has destroyed the confederates on his own
which means it was Allah
who chased away these allies
and it was Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala's help
he is the one who sent the wind
and the angels as Allah says
remember the time when the forces came against you
and we sent upon them the wind
and armies that you could not see from amongst the angels
may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala protect us always
also we should know a lesson for all of us
the help of Allah comes after great test and difficulty
when you are in the hardest moments of your life
you should know the doors are about to open
you are the closest to the opening of the doors
and this is something which is sunnatullah
it is the plan of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
the system of Allah
the Quran is full of verses that show us
that Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala has tested prophet after prophet
until when they were at the peak of the test
the doors opened one after the other
and Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala granted them help
so this is a point of comfort for us all
in life when we are going through difficulties
do not despair
sometimes you get to the peak and you think
you know what there is nothing I can do now
I am fed up I am tired
no it is the point to turn to Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
never lose hope in His mercy
you are the closest you ever were to the doors of victory
may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala protect us
and grant us ease in every of our difficulties
also when the prophet salallahu alayhi wasallam
was destroying one of the huge boulders
that the sahabah radiallahu anhu
could not destroy
as he said Allah akbar
and took the hammer and knocked the boulder
he broke it into one piece
and he said Allah akbar
I have just been given the keys to Asham
which means Allah has granted me victory over Asham
the Syrian Palestinian region
as we would call it today
known as Asham at that time
and subhanallah he says
I can see its palaces
this was when he struck it the first time
he struck it again
he says Allah akbar
I have been granted Persia
when he struck it again
and when he struck it the third time
he says Allah akbar
I have been granted the keys of Yemen
the third time he said this
and the hypocrites were busy laughing
they said this man
he is promising us victory
when we go out to relieve ourselves right now
we are so frightened
and he is telling us that he is going to be victorious
and Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala made him victorious
and we bear witness
that Islam has spread far and wide
yet at that time
they were busy digging a little trench
Allah akbar
look at the sacrifice of the sahaba
this is why we say
may peace be upon them
radhiyallahu anhum
Allah be pleased upon them
had it not been for their sacrifice
one wonders where we would have been sitting today
may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us
the ability to be grateful
and to ponder over the gift upon us
and to ponder over the sacrifice of those
and to ask ourselves
what are we ready to sacrifice
sometimes we are not ready to sacrifice
our sleep for salah
and sometimes we are not ready to sacrifice
our desires to please Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala protect us
we had also made mention of Ikrimah ibn Abi Jahl
who had tried to come through the trench
and he was attacked
Khalid ibn Al-Waleed
who was on the side of the mushriks on that day
had also tried
and because he was one who was very intelligent
on the day of Uhud
the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
had set aside Usaid ibn Hudayr radhiyallahu anhu
with 200 men telling him
just watch Khalid
just make sure that he does not come about
to engage in something similar to
that which he did in the past
may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us all protection
and as for the hypocrites
on that day they were laughing
and they said there is no chance
that you people can actually be victorious
over 10,000 powerful men
who have come heavily armed
from all different tribes and groups
they have allied together
and they have come against you
and Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala says
they sought to excuse themselves saying
you know we have to look at our own homes
there are difficulties we are facing
women are not protected and so on
so we need to go
and Allah exposes them in suratul ahzab
Allah says these are hypocrites
they lied to you
remember there was a group from amongst you
who had said
O people of Medina
O people of Yathrib
go back because you will not be able
to face this enemy
Arabic
and the group from amongst them came to you
excusing themselves with the excuse
that our homes are exposed
Allah says their homes were not exposed
they only wanted to run away from the battlefield
and this is why Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
in suratul ahzab has revealed
so many verses exposing these hypocrites
and telling us
say O Muhammad salallahu alayhi wasallam
tell them you will never be able to run away
if you are trying to run away from death
or from being killed
at the time that Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
has written for you
you won't be able to run away
you know if we take a look at
Khalid ibn al-waleed r.a
at this moment he was
from amongst the mushrik army
later on he accepted Islam
and when he passed away
he passed away on his deathbed
he was not a martyr
who had martyred on the field of battle
he passed away on his deathbed
and he showed the people
the gashes that he had had
all over his body
and he says I would just like
this to serve as a lesson
to those who are full of cowardice
that as much as I have fought
and everyone knew that Khalid ibn al-waleed
he was even known as Saifullah
he was known as the sword of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
he says as much as I fought
Allah had not written death
for me on the battlefield
but wrote it on my bed at home
so let the eyes of the coward
not be sealed and closed
may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us a lesson
thereafter we had the head of Banu Qurayza
whose name was Ka'b ibn Asad
this Ka'b ibn Asad
he had broken the treaty
during the battle of the confederation
the confederates that had come
it is known as Ghazwatul Ahzab
because they had allied together
it is also known as Al-khandaq
because of the trench that they had dug
the Banu Qurayza broke their treaty
we spoke about it yesterday
this Ka'b ibn Asad
he had tried to harm the Muslim women
and he had tried to harm the Muslims
the Prophet salallahu alayhi wasalam
first sent as Zubayr ibn al-awwam
radiallahu anhu
tells him go and see what these people are doing
he came back
and he says O Messenger salallahu alayhi wasalam
they are protecting themselves
they are building their fort properly
and they are trying to open up a pathway
in order to come and attack us perhaps
or in order to join those
and in order to assist them
so the Prophet salallahu alayhi wasalam
to confirm this news
he sent three people
he sent Sa'd ibn Mu'adh, Sa'd ibn Ubadah
and Abdullah ibn Rawaha
may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala be pleased with them
with them a group of people
go and check
go and see what is happening
they came back with the news that
Banu Quraidah has indeed broken the treaty
they are assisting these allies against us
and they were not supposed to do this
so the Prophet salallahu alayhi wasalam
sent two armies
Salamah ibn Aslam radiallahu anhu
with two hundred men
and Zaid ibn Haritha
with three hundred men
protecting Madina Munawwar
not fighting Banu Quraidah at the time
but protecting Madina
why was this?
because he knew these people would have
wanted to perhaps attack Madina
or they may give passage
to the allied forces
in order to enter Madina
and then there will be a problem
where there will be a trench in front of us
and the enemy behind us
so in order to prevent that
the Prophet salallahu alayhi wasalam
sent these men
and later on
he also had sent
Nu'ain ibn Mas'ud al-Ghatafani
as we mentioned yesterday
the one who went right to the enemy
who did not know that he had accepted Islam
Nu'ain ibn Mas'ud
and he spoke to Ghatafan
and told them that Quraysh is about to leave
and they are not trusting you
and he spoke to Quraysh
and told them Ghatafan is not trusting you
and he spoke to the Jewish tribe of Banu al-Nadir
that had come
the remnants of them
who had come from Khaybar
the likes of Huyay ibn Akhtab and so on
and he told them do you know what?
these people are full of mistrust
and so on
he had caused a lot of chaos on that day
he also went to Banu Quraidah
and he told them I'm warning you
of what happened
with Banu Qainuqa and Banu al-Nadir
just be careful, be careful
these people here
they have some form of assistance with them
which means the Muslims
and so they were also frightened
Banu Quraidah
and Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
protected the believers from
the enemy of within Banu Quraidah
and Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
granted them victory over these allies
who slowly but surely disappeared
as we said the wind was so strong
it was so cold
it had extinguished their fire
it had caused chaos in their tents
it had also caused lots of difficulty
in terms of health
they were very cold, very ill, very sick
they began to become
and at the same time
their horses were running amok
because they were not used
to this type of weather
so they began to leave one after the other
and Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala says
remember we are the ones
who chased them away
we are the ones who granted you victory
O messenger salallahu alayhi wa sallam
Allah says
remember when they had come from above
they had come from above you
and from beneath you
ghatafan had come, quraysh had come
Banu Quraidah had intended to harm
and the people from khaybar had also come
Allah says they came from all over
and when the eyesight became dull
meaning seeing so many people
and the hearts had got right up to the throats
imagine today when you are really really worried
something major is happening
where do you feel your pulse?
you suddenly feel it
as though your heart has gone right up to your neck
and you can feel it there
as though it wants to come out
may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala safeguard us
Allah says at that point
the Muslims were zulzilu
they were tested, they were shaken
a very severe shaking, awakening
and their iman was tested
and Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala says
then they were granted victory
Allahu Akbar
after that they were granted victory
when they had made dua to Allah
and when they had laid their trust in Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
so when the Prophet salallahu alayhi wasalam
was now returning after the armies had left
and he was coming back
he was removing his armor
and Jibreel alayhi salatu wasalam comes to him
and says the angels have not yet declared this war over
why was that?
immediately the Prophet salallahu alayhi wasalam understood
Banu Quraidah need to be fought
because they broke their treaty
they intended to kill us
they sided with the other side
and yet we had a treaty with them
that we would be together on one side
not aid the enemy against one another
and because they did that
the Prophet salallahu alayhi wasalam
made a famous announcement
he got up in his companions
he says
it was the time of Asr
but he had said
none of you should read Salatul Asr
until you get to Banu Quraidah
they immediately understood
something is to happen
they jumped on horseback
and some of them began to even
just run to Banu Quraidah
with their weapons
and on the way
the time of Asr began to expire
and I'm going to pause for a moment
because we learn a lesson from this
when the time of Asr began to expire
the companions were divided into two groups
one of them said
let's read our Asr
the other said
didn't you hear the words of the Prophet?
none of you should read Salatul Asr
until you get to Banu Quraidah
so we will adopt the words
of the messenger salallahu alayhi wasalam
we're going to get to Banu Quraidah
then we will read our Asr there
because today
the time of Asr is not connected
to the sun setting
it's connected to the place
it will not be valid for us to read it here
when we've heard a statement
do not read Asr
until you get to Banu Quraidah
you see what they were saying?
and the other group said
no, the messenger was only trying to say
that rush to Banu Quraidah
but he wasn't trying to say
that delay your Asr until it's time expires
so these were two
totally different understandings
one saying read your Salat
the other one saying no
let it become Qadha
we read it later on
and so what happened?
they agreed that some of them would read
whoever felt it was correct
and they agreed that the others
would read later on
when the other party got to Banu Quraidah
the time of Asr was over
they read their Asr
by that time this party had arrived
so in actual fact
they had not really lost time
because these read Asr
whilst the time displacement
was the time it took to read Asr
so when those got there
they had got in time
to read Salatul Asr
enough time for these people to have arrived
because they were both reading Salatul Asr
when they met the messenger
salallahu alaihi wasallam
they told him
what had happened?
and very amazing
very amazing words
of the Prophet salallahu alaihi wasallam
he says both of you are correct
why was that?
what was the intention of either party
to follow his words?
these people did what they did
following his words
but their interpretation
was slightly different
and these people did what they did
because they followed his words
their interpretation was slightly different
he says
for as long as you intended obedience
you are correct
Subhanallah
look at this
and this is why we learn
that sometimes within the Sharia
there may be more than one way of doing things
and both of those ways may be correct
there is no point for us
to shove down the throats of people
something that we believe is correct
when there is evidence to prove
that they also are
upon the understanding of what the messenger
salallahu alaihi wasallam has said
may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
grant us a deep understanding
this happened at the time of the battle
just after the battle of Ahzab
on their way to Banu Qurayza
remember this
it's a very very beautiful incident that occurred
now when they got to Banu Qurayza
the prophet salallahu alaihi wasallam
surrounded them for 25 nights
and they started asking questions at that time
because they thought that we are going to be protected
by our force
and after some time they became frightened
because they had lasted longer than
Banu Al-Nadheer and Banu Qaynuqa
and they were perhaps the worst of the lot
and so they started talking
okay please send us away like Banu Qaynuqa was sent away
the messenger says no
well then do what you did to Banu Al-Nadheer with us
he says no
so then they began talking
what should happen because you wanted to fight
you are criminals
you are the people who are
really guilty of war crimes against humanity
and this is what you have done
it is easy to know what they had done
may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala protect us
had it not been for the protection of Allah
subhanahu wa ta'ala one wonders what might have happened
to the people in Madina Munawwara
and so the prophet salallahu alaihi wasallam then
agreed to what they had to say
they said okay
we have a person who was alive to us in the past
and his name is Sa'd ibn Mu'adh
the head of Al-Aws
in fact before they got to the head of Al-Aws
the prophet salallahu alaihi wasallam sent Abu Lubaba
remember this name
Abu Lubaba ibn Abdul Munzir
r.a.w. was sent
because he had a link with the people of Banu Qurayza
and he even had some family there
because of that the prophet salallahu alaihi wasallam
sends him and told him
go and speak to them and tell them
what we are saying and so on
when he went there they asked him
should we settle for what the messenger is saying
and he told them yes
and he pointed at his neck
yes
which means you people are going to be executed
you are all criminals
yes
they were shocked
but they understood
when he did that
he was not instructed by the messenger salallahu alaihi wasallam
to tell them that
not at all
so he felt immediately
that I have engaged in some form of deception
I did something I was not supposed to do
and I have sinned
because I went and gave away
something that I knew of the messenger
which I was not instructed to give away
he came back without going to
Rasulullah salallahu alaihi wasallam
he was very shy
he ran to al-madinah al-munawwara
he went to masjid of Rasulullah salallahu alaihi wasallam
and he tied himself
on one of the pillars
it was a tree stump
he tied himself
and he swore an oath
within himself
I am not going to release myself
until I am forgiven
for my sin
he knew
that the messenger is going to know what happened
because Allah sends wahi
and revelation to him informing him
so this Abu Lubaba on one hand is tied
the other hand
Banu Quraidah say you know what
we've got a man
they remembered that the previous clans
they had asked
like Banu al-Nadheer
they had asked Abdullah ibn Ubayy ibn Salool
they said why don't you let him decide
and Abdullah ibn Ubayy
if you recall
he had disrespected the prophet salallahu alaihi wasallam
by holding him
and he said release them
let them go
and the prophet salallahu alaihi wasallam
so on this instance he asked
or they asked
we want Sa'd ibn Mu'adh
who was very close to us
to come whatever he says
we will agree
the messenger says
go and bring Sa'd ibn Mu'adh
where was he?
he was Masjidul Rasulillahi salallahu alaihi wasallam
there was a tent
that they had put up
in order to look after those
who were injured
during the battle of the trench
and one of them was Sa'd ibn Mu'adh
he had been hit with some spears
and he was injured
so he couldn't really move
they carried him
and they brought him to Banu Quraidha
Banu Quraidha were encircled
so when he got there
they were very excited
because they thought this is our man
he will probably say something nice
so they told Rasulullah salallahu alaihi wasallam
this is the man
whatever he says we will agree
so Sa'd ibn Mu'adh looks at them
will you agree to whatever I say?
they said yes
he said oh messenger
these are criminals of the highest order
they are criminals of the highest order
execute them all
Allahu Akbar
imagine Sa'd ibn Mu'adh says
I know these people
they are criminals
they are not to be forgiven
the others we had forgiven them
they went
what did they do?
they brought together a huge army
they are the ones who created that committee of people
who went to Quraish and here and there
and they came to fight us
if you are going to leave these people
look at what they did
they actually wanted to destroy us completely from the back
if it was not for the protection of Allah
we would have been destroyed
oh messenger salallahu alaihi wasallam
execute them one after the other
because this is more like a court martial
all of them are guilty of war crimes
they need to be executed
one after the other
Banu Quraidha was executed
may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala protect us all
and grant us goodness
and those who were not criminals
the women and the children and so on
they were considered prisoners of war
may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us a lesson from this
Sa'd ibn Mu'adh radiallahu anhu
he had accepted Islam upon the hands of Mus'ab ibn Umayr radiallahu anhu
we made mention of it more than once in these series
and he was a name
I had told you remember this name
he was such a powerful leader
that the Sahaba radiallahu anhu
used to say
that in the same way Abu Bakr
is considered amongst the Muhajireen
Sa'd ibn Mu'adh is considered amongst the Ansar
which means he has a very high standing amongst us
and after the battle of Ahzab he fell ill
and this injury that he had had did not heal
and it resulted in the death of Sa'd ibn Mu'adh radiallahu anhu
one narration says on that day
the throne of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala shook
with the death of Sa'd ibn Mu'adh radiallahu anhu
taking the rooh of Sa'd ibn Mu'adh radiallahu anhu
as it was accepted and as it came into al-Barzakh
may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala protect us
another narration in Sunan al-Bazzar says
when Sa'd ibn Mu'adh radiallahu anhu passed away
70,000 angels came down to carry his janaza
subhanallah
the prophet salallahu alayhi wasallam walked with him
and he went very quickly because
this man he might have been a small man
he was young in age
quite young in age
but he had had deeds that the angels knew
they used to record
and he had had powerful deeds
Sa'd ibn Mu'adh radiallahu anhu
one of the people whom Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
has really granted goodness to
he was informed of jannah before he passed away
one day the messenger salallahu alayhi wasallam
was granted a gift of silk
and the sahaba radiallahu anhu
were touching the silk and saying
oh how soft the silk is
the prophet salallahu alayhi wasallam said
do you know how soft the silk is
well the silk that Sa'd ibn Mu'adh
is dressed in jannah
is even softer than this
subhanallah
this was the man
when the prophet salallahu alayhi wasallam
buried him
he says if anyone was to be spared
from the punishment of
or should I say from the narrowing of the grave
in the grave
if anyone was to be spared
from the narrowing within the grave
it would have been this worshiper
which means Sa'd ibn Mu'adh radiallahu anhu
may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala open our doors
this was the same man
who decided to execute all of them
because they are war criminals
may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us goodness
and may he give us even a slight bit
of the rank that he had given some of those
wallahi we are weak
this is a month of ramadan
month of goodness
we are so weak
let us promise Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
that we will try to be the best of people
and we will try to improve ourselves
our lives are far easier
than the lives of these people
who had sacrificed and earned the
happiness of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
why then do we find ourselves
in such transgression
may Allah protect us
as for Abul Ubaba on the other hand
he tied himself
and the prophet salallahu alayhi wasallam
was told his story
the prophet salallahu alayhi wasallam said
had he come to me seeking forgiveness
I would have made dua for him
he would have been forgiven
but since he has decided
he wants to be forgiven
we will wait for revelation to come and forgive him
so he imposed it on himself
tied himself
every day he is engaging in tawbah
his wife used to come and release him for salah
he would read salah and get back
tied once again
and this lasted 6 days
after 6 days
revelation came forgiving him
so the prophet salallahu alayhi wasallam
that revelation has come forgiving
Abul Ubaba
and the house of Um Musalama
was right at the masjid
just adjacent to the masjid
of Rasulullah salallahu alayhi wasallam
so she says oh messenger
can I inform him
he said yes
so she said with a loud voice
oh Abul Ubaba
revelation has come to you
forgiving you
revelation has come
to Rasulullah salallahu alayhi wasallam
forgiving you
about you
he says
I'm not going to release myself
until I'm released by Rasulullah salallahu alayhi wasallam
he must come tell me
subhanallah
there are some who had done good deeds
I've spoiled them with a few bad deeds
seeking the forgiveness of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
Allah will forgive them
for indeed Allah is most forgiving
most merciful
the lesson for us all
we have good deeds
we have bad deeds
never lose hope in the mercy of Allah
no matter who you are
no matter what you've done
the mercy of Allah is not far away
it is very near
we need to seek it
and we need to be serious about it
and wallahi it descends upon us
may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us forgiveness
and this is when he was forgiven
and then
Abu Lubabah
up to this day
if you go to Al-Madeenatul Munawwarah
in what is known as Al-Rawdah
Al-Rawdah
the Prophet salallahu alayhi wasallam says
between my house and my mimbar
is a garden from the gardens of paradise
so if you go there
it is demarcated with a different color of carpet
and if you look at the pillars
they are different
they have some marble on them
and if you look further up
there are names on the pillars
one of them you will see
Ustuwana to Abi Lubabah
you will see the pillar of Abu Lubabah
it used to be a tree stump
later on they demarcated it
now they have put up a proper pillar
and that means this is the place
where this man had tied himself
now when you go there
you will know
what is the meaning of the term
Ustuwana to Abi Lubabah
may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala forgive us all
and grant us goodness
the verses of Hijab were also revealed
after the battle of Ahzab
where the verses which had instructed us
how to be speaking to the opposite sex
the limits of it
the lowering of the gaze
how we should be addressing the wives
of the messenger sallallahu alayhi wasallam
from behind a screen
all this is revealed in the Quran
how the women should be
when they leave their homes
putting on an outer cloak
an outer garment
in fact let me read the verse for you
Arabic
O messenger
tell your wives, your daughters
and the believing females
that they should don
they should wear the outer garment
a julbab
that which comes from the top to the bottom
the outer garment
and this is when they would leave their homes
or when they would be in the presence
in the presence of a non-mahram, a strange man who is marriable.
In Islam, anyone whom you can marry is strange to you.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us protection.
So this laid down the foundations of the dress code in Islam.
From this day on, things changed in Madinatul Munawwarah.
So much so that when this verse of Ahzab came,
the Sahaba radiallahu anhum and the wives of Rasulullah sallallahu alayhi wa sallam,
they say, may Allah's mercy be upon the women of the ansar.
When the verse of Hijab came, they all had covered themselves
as though they were crows in a black outer garment, subhanAllah.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala open our doors.
It's not compulsory to wear the color black,
but it is better to wear a darker color because it is astar.
It actually covers you better.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala protect us and grant us goodness and open our doors.
So Hijab was also revealed during or just after that particular battle.
And at the same time, it's important that we make note of something
that had happened in the battle of that Al-Riqa'a.
There is difference of opinion as to when exactly that Al-Riqa'a took place.
It was a battle where when the Muslims' time for prayer had come,
the non-Muslims had thought when these people go to sajda,
we can wipe them out because they have to pray.
And when they are praying, they all go down in prostration.
When they are prostrating, it will be easy to wipe them out.
So Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala revealed to Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam,
وَإِذَا ضَرَبْتُمْ فِي الْأَرْضِ فَلَيْسَ عَلَيْكُمْ جُنَاحٌ أَنْ تَقْصُرُوا مِنَ الصَّلَاةِ إِنْ خِفْتُمْ
إِنْ خِفْتُمْ أَنْ يَفْتِنَكُمُ الَّذِينَ كَفَرُوا
When you are traveling on land and you are fearful,
you are scared, meaning there is fear of the enemy attacking you.
There is no harm in changing the salah.
When we say changing the salah, meaning the physical postures and movements of salah for that moment,
there will be a difference in it.
In what way?
Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala says,
وَإِذَا كُنتَ فِيهِمْ فَأَقَمْتَ لَهُمُ الصَّلَاةَ فَالْتَقُمْ طَائِفَةٌ مِنْهُمْ مَعَكُ
Long verses that Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala makes mention of in Surah An-Nisa.
And Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala says,
there should be a group of people when they go down to sajda,
there must be another group of people who have not gone down to sajda
and they are waiting with their weapons.
Allahu akbar.
When these have completed with their sajda,
these people will then go down to their sajda
and those will be waiting with their weapons.
So they will take turns.
Allahu akbar.
Look at the salah.
And when they had done this,
the mushriks were shocked because their plan.
Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala says,
The disbelievers had hoped that whilst you are oblivious of your items
and your armor and your belongings,
they could have wiped you out at once.
And Allah says,
you change, you can change the method
or the physical method of salah for that particular time
where one group goes down, the other one is waiting.
When that one comes up, this one goes down,
whilst that one goes down,
the other group goes down,
the other one comes up, this one goes down,
whilst that one is waiting.
Subhanallah.
Then they join together.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us goodness.
This had also come down.
Another very interesting point I want to make mention of
is that Zayd ibn Thabit radiallahu anhu,
the Prophet salallahu alayhi wasallam told him,
O Zayd, I need you,
I need you to learn the language,
the Hebrew language because we don't trust these people
and we would like to know this language.
Zayd ibn Thabit radiallahu anhu
started learning Hebrew within 15 days.
He learned the Hebrew language completely
and he was a master at it.
Later on, when the Prophet salallahu alayhi wasallam
wrote letters to some of the kings,
he had told him to learn a different language
known as Assyriania
and he learned it again in less than a month.
I have a question.
We all say, I want to learn Arabic.
Anytime you see someone, they say,
I want to learn Arabic.
Forget about 15 days.
15 years have gone by,
we still don't know the language.
Look at the dedication of those
and where's our dedication?
May Allah open us and open our doors.
May He make it easy for us.
At least if not 15 days, then 15 months
and if not 15 months, come on,
15 years can go by,
but would you know something?
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us dedication.
I think if we all learn a few words a day
of the Arabic language, believe me,
within a short space of time,
we would know a lot.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala open our doors.
Then there is an incident in history
that we are going to make mention of today.
There was a man known as Zayd ibn Harithah.
Not the same Zayd ibn Thabit
we spoke about languages about, no.
Another man known as Zayd ibn Harithah.
If you remember, he was the slave boy
who was freed by Rasulullah sallallahu alaihi wasallam
and he accepted Islam right at the beginning
and he refused to go back with his parents.
He was so close to the messenger.
The messenger sallallahu alaihi wasallam
had adopted him and he was known as Zayd ibn Muhammad.
Zayd, the son of Muhammad.
Everyone knew him as Zayd ibn Muhammad.
So this was something that the people at that time
were indulged in, engrossed in,
very deeply believing in.
What was this belief?
You adopt someone, you change their name
to your own name and you begin to say,
this person is son of so and so, yet they are not.
But just because you've adopted them,
you've changed their name.
And Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala wanted this
to be crushed forever.
It was a belief where, remember,
Nasab and your lineage is sacred.
Allah created you and He chose for you your parents,
whether they are good or bad is besides the point.
You have to be linked to your father,
whether you like him or you don't like him.
You will be called not by your mother's name
on the day of Qiyamah.
No, no, not at all.
Those who think you are going to be called
by your mother's name in order to protect people
from adultery and meaning being exposed on that day,
that is not true.
It is completely fabricated, no.
You will be called your name,
son of so and so with your father's name.
The story is over.
That is authentic and without a dispute.
So the Prophet Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam says,
give your children good names
because they will be called by their names
and their father's names on the day of Qiyamah.
Now, at that time, they were saying Zaydi bin Muhammad.
The Prophet Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam had adopted him.
Then Allah Subhanahu Wa Ta'ala had,
with his divine wisdom, obviously planned something.
There was a cousin of the Prophet Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam
by the name of Zainab binti Jahsh.
Her mother was the aunt of Rasulullah Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam,
Umaymah binti Abd al-Muttalib.
And she was the aunt of Rasulullah Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam
and this was the cousin.
He told her, oh Zainab,
I would like you to marry Zayd,
Zayd meaning Zayd ibn Muhammad,
this man Zayd ibn Harith who was known at that time as that.
So she said, no man, I don't want to marry him.
He is formerly a slave and he is like this and like that and so on.
And this Zayd was married to someone known as Umayman.
And she had had his child known as Usama ibn Zayd.
Umayman was a woman from Africa, as we had told you.
She looked after Rasulullah Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam
from the point of birth right up to adulthood,
Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam.
That was Umayman.
And the Prophet Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam
made an announcement,
whoever wants to marry a woman from paradise,
marry this woman and Zayd ibn Harith married her.
This was Umayman, radiallahu anha.
Now Zainab binti Jahsh is saying,
I don't want to marry him.
But the Prophet Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam said,
this is an instruction.
Verses were revealed.
Listen to the verses.
We need them today, desperately.
Wama kaana limu'minun wala mu'minatin
idaa qad allahu wa rasuluhu
amran ayyakoon lahumul khiyaratu min amrihim.
It is not for a believing male or a believing female
that when Allah and His Rasul have decided something
and commanded and instructed something
that they think they have a choice in that regard.
A believing male and women,
a believing male and female,
when Allah and His messenger have instructed something,
they know they have no choice in that regard.
They must get it done.
That's a sign of belief.
May Allah grant it to us.
Today someone says, you know brother,
interest is haram.
Say, no man, I heard that if you do it this way,
that way, then it's okay.
Interest is haram.
Close the door and carry on.
Someone says, you know adultery is haram.
No, but those people,
they can do something temporary, you know.
Astaghfirullah.
Why use different names?
Why say different things?
Why con yourself?
Surrender to the law of Allah.
So the Prophet Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam,
when he said this, Zainab bint Jah says,
I hear and I obey.
And she married this man, Zaid ibn Harithah,
radiallahu anhu.
It so happened that he had a difficulty.
There was no compatibility.
We believe they were both Sahaba.
It was Allah's divine plan.
There was no compatibility.
Zainab bint Jah did not get along
with Zaid ibn Harithah
and he did not get along with her.
We don't know of the details of what happened,
but the most respectful term for us to say is,
there was no compatibility.
Two brilliant people,
but brought up slightly differently.
And therefore you find difference.
And he used to come complaining
to Muhammad Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam,
and Muhammad Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam used to tell him,
fear Allah and hold her.
Ittaqillah, fear Allah and hold her.
And Allah Subhanahu Wa Ta'ala
then sent revelation to Muhammad Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam,
telling him, informing him
that he will be married off to Zainab bint Jah
after Zaid divorces Zainab.
And the reason for this is,
so that people know that Zaid is not your son.
And so that the laws of adoption
be made clear in Islam
and distinguished from the laws of adoption
that had reigned at the time of the pagan Arabs
for that reason.
It was very clear.
So Allah Subhanahu Wa Ta'ala
then speaks about Zaid radiallahu anhu
and how Allah Subhanahu Wa Ta'ala
got Muhammad Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam
married from the heavens.
The marriage was done from the heavens.
He went in, the mahr was 400 dirhams
and he had paid her the mahr
after Zaid ibn Haritha divorced her.
And the idda period was over
and he took her as a wife,
made an announcement and had a walima
amongst his companions.
And the people were very, very amazed
because they learned something
through the revelation
that had come from Allah Subhanahu Wa Ta'ala.
When Zaid radiallahu anhu divorced her,
we got her married to you,
O Muhammad Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam.
Likayla yakoona ala almu'mineena haraj
fi azwaji ad'iyaihim
ida qadaw minhunna wa tara
So that none of you
could have any form of marriage
or any other form of marriage.
So that none of you
could have any form of doubt
regarding the marriage of a person
to the ex-wife of his so-called adopted son,
which means this is not your son.
If he was your real son,
you would never be allowed to marry her
because that was your daughter-in-law
prohibited upon you
even after she is divorced.
So this was Allah Subhanahu Wa Ta'ala.
And in the same surah
known as Suratul Ahzab,
remember this all happened after Al Ahzab.
Right at the beginning,
Allah Subhanahu Wa Ta'ala says,
if you open the pages of Suratul Ahzab,
very interesting, powerful surah.
Allah Subhanahu Wa Ta'ala says,
wa ma ja'ala ad'iyaaakum abnaaakum
Those whom you are claiming to have adopted,
we have not made them your sons.
They are not your sons.
Allah says,
ادعوهم لآبائهم
هو أقسط عند الله
Call them with their father's names.
That is justice according to Allah Subhanahu Wa Ta'ala.
And this is why it is totally prohibited
to lie and say this is so-and-so,
son of so-and-so,
knowing that this is not true.
If you've adopted someone,
you can always inform them.
They need to know who they are.
Lineage is sacred in Islam.
And this is why the hadith says,
whoever changes lineage,
knowing that this is untrue,
they will not smell the scent of heaven.
Allahu Akbar.
They will not smell the scent of heaven
because it is sacred.
And whoever calls themselves
with a name besides that of their father's,
meaning son of so-and-so.
You see surnames,
a surname is something that people create.
A man sells milk,
they call him so-and-so milkman.
You know, a man sells,
I know in Urdu they would say,
or in Gujarati they would say Dudwala,
which means a person who sells milk.
For example, in another language,
they might say Najar,
which means a carpenter.
They will say,
so a surname is just something
that people are known by.
No harm in surnames.
We're not worried.
But at the same time to say
that this person is the son of so-and-so
or to give people the feeling
that this person is actually belonging to someone
whom he is not belonging to.
That is what we're talking about.
Allah says, even if you don't know their parents,
you should call them,
these are the sons of Abdullah.
فَإِلَّمْ تَعْلَمُوا أَبَاءَهُمْ فَإِخْوَانُكُمْ فِي الدِّيلِ
These are our brothers in Islam.
This is the verses of Surah Al-Ahzab
and I invite you to pick up the Quran
and read the opening verses of Surah Al-Ahzab
to see what Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala has said.
Because adoption as was known
at the time of Quraysh was abolished completely.
So what remained?
What remained is the virtue of looking after children
who do not belong to you.
That's all it was.
It's just looking after children.
You have foster children who are not yours.
We still have Jahiliya in us.
We still have ignorance in us
whereby people don't have children.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant them.
After some time they adopt
and they get so upset if you say,
is this your child?
What do you mean, is this my child?
This is my son, Allahu Akbar.
But you sound like a man from Quraysh.
Allah protect us.
That's not supposed to be the case.
Don't be embarrassed.
Tell those children from a young age,
we love you the most.
We love you so much that we want to look after you.
We will ensure that you have a good upbringing.
We will be just as your parents,
but your parents are someone else.
This is Islam.
We need to be honest and open
and we need to make amends.
There is nothing wrong.
And every time we speak about this
because of the Western system
that sometimes we find ourselves drowning in,
people are shocked.
They say, what?
We've never heard this before.
But this is the deen from the beginning.
It is known just like wudu and salah.
This is the law.
Anyone who wanted to know it,
it's in the Quran.
You can just open it and see Suratul Ahzab.
Read what it says there.
Allahu Akbar.
Clear cut verses.
Do not call someone your son
when he is not your son, it's over.
And the only time a person is to be called
by the name of the mother
is when that child is illegitimate
or the father is unknown.
Allah protect us.
If you find in the whole book,
in all the scriptures from the beginning right to the end,
the only person who is called the son of a mother
is Isa.
وَإِذْ قَالَ عِيْسَ بَنُوا مَرْيَمْ
Jesus, the son of Mary.
Why?
He did not have a father.
It was Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
who miraculously caused the birth of Jesus
may peace be upon him.
So that is why he is known as Jesus,
the son of Mary.
When it comes to anyone else,
they are never referred to as son of so and so
with the mother's name.
Nowadays I know of cases where
the mothers feel that you know we have equal rights
so now you must put my name in the name as well.
So they say so and so,
son of the mother, son of the father.
Allahu Akbar.
You're not going to lose or gain anything by that.
This is Allah's plan.
Allah says you are called by your father.
So it's nothing bad.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us goodness
and may He open our doors and grant us acceptance.
So Zayd ibn Haritha,
radiallahu anhu,
from that day nobody ever called him
Zayd ibn Muhammad again.
Everything that had happened,
even when hadith was recorded,
his name was recorded as Zayd ibn Haritha
from the very beginning
because they had recorded it after this verse was revealed.
And for your information,
the only companion of Rasulullah sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
whose name is in the Quran is Zayd,
Zayd ibn Haritha.
And this is in Surah Al-Ahzab.
And this shows the love.
No one must think the messenger didn't love him.
Look, they changed the name.
Allah loves him so much.
He was known as Hibbu Rasulillah sallallahu alayhi wa sallam,
the most beloved to the messenger sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
that Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
chose to put his name in the Quran,
yet the names of the other companions
are not in the Quran.
We ask Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala to open our doors
and grant us goodness tomorrow, inshallah.
We will go straight into the events
that led up to the treaty of Hudaibiyah
and why exactly it happened and how exactly it happened.
But before we get there, inshallah,
and before we close this evening,
I'd like to make mention that there were many skirmishes
that took place after the Battle of the Trench.
Why were there many skirmishes?
Because there were so many parties
that had taken part in that particular alliance
that the Muslims had scores to settle.
They had to go to those people
who had engaged in a crime before.
Those people, the people of Raji'
who had slaughtered the 10 companions we spoke about
and so on.
So these battles had taken place.
All of them, the Muslims were victorious.
In fact, most of them, there was no actual battle.
It was just a skirmish.
When the Muslims had come, these people were frightened.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us goodness.
Insha'Allah, we will see how the Prophet salallahu alaihi wa sallam
had a dream.
And in his dream, he saw that he himself
with his companions were entering Makkah
whilst their heads were shaved
and some of them, their hair was very cut, very short
and they were going into Makkah
and he knew that this means we should be going for Umrah
and therefore he made an announcement
amongst his companions, we will now proceed for Umrah.
How were they going to go?
Quraysh is waiting there with armies.
The people around are all waiting
with all their enmity and hatred.
Tomorrow we will see what happened, insha'Allah,
until then.
Wa salallahu wa sallam wa baraka ala nabina Muhammad.
Subhanallahi bi hamdi.
Subhanaka Allahumma bi hamdika nashhadu alla ilaha illa anta.
Nastaghfiruka wa natubu ilayk.
Alhamdu lillahi Rabbil alameen
Ar-Rahman Ar-Raheem
Maaliki yawm al deen
Iyyaka na'bubin